I've got that in place.
I can pull this out into useLocalStorage,
right?
There's a hook that I'm making up out of
nowhere, what should useLocalStorage do?
Well, it should do what the useState
does to manage the state.
And when that state changes,
it's just stored in localStorage, right?
So it's basically taking these two pieces,
this right here and
this part up here, and
we're just rolling it into one.
So now, if you need to do this
other places in your application,
you now use this obstruction that
you've created for yourself.
So let's try it out.
We'll make a function
called useLocalStorage.
And we know that useState
takes a default value, rright?
So I could say, initialValue,
which is what I believe it's
called in useState under the hood.
Let's see, initialState.
But that's problematic, because we know
that we're using a key in here for
where we want to store it in localStorage,
and we do not want every.
If we're gonna make a reusable hook,
them all overriding each
other probably not great.
Right, this is a personal opinion.
So we'll take an initial state.
I'm actually gonna make the key the first.
I'll make it the second,
just keep it as a similar API.
So we'll say, key, in this case, and
this will be where do we wanna
store it in localStorage.
All right, so now what we can do
is we pull this in there as well.
We'll give ourselves, this is so
I could have it in its own file.
Could I keep it in, say?
That would totally work,
we can leave that there too.
So we'll say, getItem with the key.
We will go and get that key again here.
All right, so go ahead and
pull it out in both times.
Actually, let's put that
back in a function.
That will return initialState, right?
So go ahead, look for it in localStorage.
If you get, it return that, otherwise
whatever they said the initial value was
works for us.
Cool.
And then what we'll do is, we'll say.
Now, I'm just gonna name these value and
setValue because I don't know what they
are before we knew it was account.
Now we don't necessarily know its account,
and
this is why useState puts it in an array.
With an object, you can do structure but
it has to be the name of the keys, right?
The reason it gives us, JavaScript
functions can return two values, right?
So they can return an array where we can
name the first thing in the array value
and setValue.
Counter and setCount, user and setUser,
grudge and setGrudge, right, so on and so
forth, right?
It gives us a flexibility in naming here.
So we can go ahead and
we can try that out.
So we'll say the initial
value here is useState.
I'll just use that get
shorthand that we had before.
All right, so we'll get that, and
then we'll also just register
the effect of the same time, useEffect
And that useEffect is going to be
that localStorage setItem at the key.
And then we will, I just need to change
one thing, as I was talking and coding.
Cuz we're gonna take whatever the name
of the value is, we'll use that.
So this is in case it's called counter,
whatever, they'll get stored in there.
Cool, and so now we have the ability
to get something at localStorage.
We have that storage and
localStorage put in place here.
We're setting some state.
The last thing we need to do is kind of
just match an API that matches useState.
Cuz there's basically setting the state,
and
it's also registering that whole ability
to read and write from localStorage is
simply an abstraction over the two
things that we had before.
We return value and set value.
So, as far as the user knows, it's got
the exact same API as react.useState.
Under the hood,
it is using react.useState, but
it's also taking care of all this
localStorage reading and writing.
It's effectively the code we had before,
just a little more dynamic before
we had hard coded in some strings.
And we knew that was a count.
We knew that we were
putting a count state,
because it's a little bit more reusable.
We had to put in some variables that
made it a little bit more squirrely.
But, generally speaking,
it is simply we useState and
useEffect with this localStorage
logic all kind of rolled into one.
All right, with the decent
amount of coding and talking,
let's see how that went for us.
So now I can say, useLocalStorage, and
the initial state is going to be,
let's say 0.
I'm gonna give it a new key in this case,
just so
we can separate it from other
localStorage that we had before.
We'll call it just count in this case.
All right, so it is 0.
It is 5.
It's assigned not used,
let's see what we've got in here.
>> Are you trying to use value here for
values even set?
That was tripping me
up a little bit there.
>> Let me actually see what, cuz I was
talking and typing and refactoring.
I wanna see what the localStorage, and
I will tell you what I
intended on doing [LAUGH].
We've got account in there, it's getting
stored as an empty object, cool.
So then we set, we'll set the key,
we've got account.
Probably if I'm gonna care about
the value, I should listen to that, right?
Let's see how that goes from here.
That's fun.
All right, so for the user, right, I got
of not difficult in my own dependencies,
right?
So on the initial one is immediately,
cuz this is a function we're getting and
it was getting set to a non value.
So this is all, a lot of times what do we
have to do is squirrely stuff in code.
Do I love the localStorage API?
I do not, I don't, and the squirrely parts
of this are dealing with localStorage.
And in a more robust situation,
we would try and
catch, cuz json.parse loves to throw
errors like it's nobody's business, right?
That becomes complicated code.
If we needed to do that more than once in
managing the state in our application,
I don't wanna write that more than once.
It's cuz every time you write it,
it's a chance that someone's
gonna make mistake, right?
I made a mistake.
The idea here is we have it bundled up
in an abstraction of useLocalStorage
as far as anyone else using this now,
right?
Once we've got it down,
they use uselocalStorage, and
it's the same API as useState,
other than having a key, right?
They're not thinking
about the other parts.
And it just is automatically gonna
store stuff in state for us, right?
And now we've bundled that up by kind
of combining two hooks into our own
abstraction, right?
And that's kind of one of the powers.
Cuz now we can put this in an own file,
call it useLocalStorage.js.
Any other component can import
it instead of using useState.
You're going to get useLocalStorage is
gonna be useState with the ability to
store it based on that key automatically.
And sart to build up your own
toolbox of different abilities and
be able to iterate it from there.
So useState does
work a little bit differently than
the component ones as well, right?
I'm sorry, useEffect
works a little bit differently
than the component ones as well.
And it's also little subtle things.
And really, the big difference is not
necessarily that the API is implemented
differently.
There are just slightly
different implications based on
how JavaScript works, right?
And what I'll point out here is that
in a class-based component, right?
Class at the end of the day spits
out an object that has methods and
stuff like that,
our state is stored in an object.
In JavaScript,
we pass objects by reference, right,
and we passed primitives by value.
Even if we were to pass an object to
setCounter or something like that,
we are wholesale replacing
the object with a new one.
So this works a little bit differently
than maybe componentDidMount or
componentDidUpdateMine.
So, I'm gonan commit this real
quick And
I'm just going to make a new ranch,
We'll call example-use-local-storage,
Cool.
I am using that so I can switch,
there is one that you should have
called component-state-completed which is
kind of before we refactored the hooks.
And this is just so I can show
you something very quickly here.